So now that we know what we're
gonna be doing in this course,
let's talk about what are we
gonna be using in this course.
So if you follow me into the Tools section
here, we got a couple of different areas
that we have to cover, and then what tools
we're gonna use in those different areas.
So when it comes to the runtime,
just like the title says,
this is gonna be a Node.js course.
Node.js is a runtime, it's not a language.
JavaScript is a language,
Node.js is an environment that
allows you to run JavaScript.
And we that's exactly what we're gonna do.
It's basically an environment outside
of the browser that we can use in
an operating system.
And it behaves very similar to
the environment that's in the browser,
just different globals and
things like that.
And the reason I chose
this one is because, one,
it's the one I'm most comfortable with.
Two, if you've ever done any front end
development work with any modern stack,
you already used node.
Believe it or not,
you already know how to use it.
You ever did a import,
you ever did a require,
you ever worked with a build system
before, all of that is Node.js, so
you're already using it, so
we're just piggy-backing on that.
And then, three, it just has really
a cool ecosystem that has pretty much any
package you can think of that's out
there which helps us develop faster.
And when it comes to frameworks,
Node.js is the environment just like
the browser might be an environment.
But we would probably wanna use a
framework to build a server just like you
would probably use a framework
in a browser like React.
So we're gonna use the most
chosen champion framework for
Node js when it comes to building API's,
and that's gonna be Express js.
Express was with Node from the beginning,
it almost feels like they came together,
and everyone has been using it ever since.
It has the biggest community when it
comes to API frameworks with Node js.
And pretty much everything is a derivative
or inspired by Express at this point.
So we're gonna using Express for
those reasons.
And also, again, it's the thing
that I'm most comfortable with.
I used Express on the previous
versions of this course.
And to this day,
I keep learning new things.
So I'm happy to share those with you.
Our API wouldn't be that useful if
it didn't have a database that it
interacted with.
So this is no different in this course,
we are also going to use a database.
And in this course, I decided to
do something a little different.
I decided to use Postgres,
which traditionally for
the other version of the course,
I use Mongo.
But for the last year or so, I've actually
been using tons of SQL and Postgres,
mostly due to a lot of innovation in
that space when it comes to serverless
technology.
So my hands have just been so
dirty with Postgres, and
I've kinda just fell in love with it.
So we'll be using Postgres for that,
simply because I feel really comfortable
with it right now and kinda wanted to mix
it up from the traditional Mongo
stuff that I've taught in the past.
But also, it's one of the most popular,
if not the most popular
database in the world.
So having knowledge of
working with Postgres,
building an API is only gonna help you
in your career, so let's do it together.
And then lastly,
when it comes to hosting, there's just so
many different platforms to host an API
on, one less now than before, Heroku,
but there's still so many out there.
And when it comes down to choosing one,
there's just a plethora of
different variables, like costs,
user experience, interactivity,
there's so many things that go into it.
So I'm really excited about talking about
hosting, because I chose a platform called
render.com, which is
relatively new platform.
It kinda gives me those early Heroku
vibes, but for the more modern stack,
super easy to deploy to,
very friendly for Node.js developers.
So we'll be using that to deploy our API,
and
we'll probably talk about some
other ones along the way.
All right, so like I said,
I like to learn by building things.
I like to teach by building things.
So in this course, we're actually
gonna be building something.
We're gonna be building this imaginary
change log app for users to be able to
update their users on all the different
features and things in their product.
And before we dive into that,
I really wanted to take a quick note on
a decision that I made with this course.
So we're gonna be using ES6 modules in
this course, which, if you've ever built
anything in React, you use the imports and
the modules and all the fancy stuff.
We're gonna be using that
along with TypeScript.
So if you haven't used that,
that's totally fine.
If you have experience with CommonJS,
which is the required stuff,
then you'll fit right in,
it's not a big worry.
But it's gonna start off using
require until we add the TypeScript.
I don't wanna throw you off when
you see me do require at first,
because we're actually gonna
switch over and use ES6,
I just didn't wanna have
to set that up twice.
So I just wanted to put that out there.